President Corazon Aquino said Friday that for security reasons she would not permit deposed President Ferdinand E. Marcos to be buried in the Philippines.
Marcos was reported to be in "very critical condition" in Honolulu, where he has lived in exile since his ouster in 1986.
Hospital officials there said that he rallied slightly Friday but remained in extremely critical condition.
The 71-year-old former president has been suffering from heart, lung and kidney disorders as well as pneumonia.
His frail body attached to a respirator and a hemodialysis blood-cleansing machine, Marcos is unconscious most of the time but occasionally shows faint signs of life, doctors in Hawaii said.
Medical sources said that he is being treated with antibiotics and heart medication but that he could die at "any time."
Radio stations here broadcast hourly reports on Marcos' condition.
Philippine officials were asked repeatedly whether the Aquino government's refusal to allow Marcos to return to the country would remain in effect after his death.
One radio station broadcast an interview with Marcos' wife, Imelda, at the St. Francis Medical Center in Honolulu, where she was said to be maintaining a vigil at his bedside.
She was quoted as appealing to Aquino to "open her heart" and allow Marcos to return to the Philippines.
Aquino said she would not alter her position but that she had prayed for Marcos' recovery.
"I regret to inform Mrs. Marcos that as much as I agree that Mr. Marcos has his rights, I still have to consider also the rights and the interests of millions of Filipinos," Aquino told reporters at the presidential palace.
"I have said... in the past that we will not allow his remains to be brought back here, and we have already taken plans to avoid any untoward incident."
Nonetheless, Marcos supporters announced that they will march through the capital today to support the former president's demand that he be allowed to die in the Philippines.
Despite charges that Marcos and his inner circle looted the government treasury of billions of dollars, the former president still has a significant following here.
In the Philippines, personal loyalty is considered a sacred debt..
Attempted Coups.
Government officials have accused Marcos supporters of taking part in at least two attempted coups against the Aquino government.
Aquino evidently is concerned that even after death, the return of Marcos' remains could spark violence or galvanize opposition to her government.
Aquino's national security adviser, Rafael Ileto, told reporters Friday that the Philippine army is prepared for any emergency that might be provoked by the death of the former president.
He was quoted as saying that while Marcos is no longer a threat to the government, his supporters "can still cause disruption."
Marcos' mother, Josefa, died a year ago, but because Marcos has been barred from this country, the family refuses to have her remains interred.
A newspaper advertisement published on the first anniversary of her death May 4 said, "funeral arrangements will be announced."
Marcos and his wife have been indicted by a federal grand jury in the United States on charges of racketeering, fraud and extortion.
Marcos has been excused from appearing in court up to now because of his failing health.
Imelda Marcos is free on $5 million bail.
Times staff writer Ron Harris, in Honolulu, contributed to this story.