Iraq's powerful army claimed victory today in its lightning invasion of this small, oil-rich kingdom.
Tank-led troops quickly seized the ruler's palace and government buildings, and the emir fled to Saudi Arabia, Kuwaiti officials said.
Kuwait's U.S. ambassador said the Iraqis occupied all government buildings in the capital and were moving south toward the country's oil facilities.
He appealed for U.S. military intervention.
"The Iraqis have occupied all of Kuwait!"
a Kuwaiti government official shouted in a telephone interview.
Diplomatic sources in the Persian Gulf estimated that more than 200 Kuwaitis were killed or wounded.
The Iraqi government of President Saddam Hussein claimed that it invaded at the request of revolutionaries who had already staged a coup and established "the provisional government of free Kuwait."
Kuwait and U.N. diplomats labeled the coup report a farce.
Baghdad television said Iraq could withdraw its forces within days or weeks, depending on how quickly the situation stabilized.
The assault followed two weeks of tension between Kuwait and Iraq, caused by Iraqi accusations that Kuwait stole oil from a disputed border area.
Saddam also accused Kuwait of exceeding OPEC production quotas, thus driving down the price of oil, a major Iraqi revenue source.
In recent days, diplomats said Iraq had massed more than 100,000 troops at the border.
Kuwait's entire armed forces has 20,300 soldiers.
It was the first time in modern history that an Arab nation had invaded another and taken over its government.
Kuwait's army was no match for Iraq, battle-hardened after eight years of war with Iran.
Diplomats said about 350 Iraqi tanks wheeled into the capital a few hours after crossing the border 40 miles away at dawn.
Witnesses said the bombardment of ports and military airports by artillery and the air force was vicious.
The invaders surrounded the palace of Kuwait's ruler, Sheik Jabbar al Ahmed al Sabah.
Residents said the palace was seized after about two hours of heavy artillery barrages.
Diplomats said Sheik Fahd al Ahmed al Sabah, one of the emir's brothers, was killed while trying to defend the palace.
There were about 50 tanks around the palace and the neighboring American Embassy, residents said.
The al Sabah family has ruled the city-state for almost 250 years.
The Kuwaiti ambassador said the leaders were safe in Saudi Arabia.
Operating from an unknown location, al Ahmed's government responded to the formation of the provisional government by stating: "Kuwait is Kuwait to its people, led by the emir, Sheik Jabbar, and his Crown Prince Sheik Saad.
God preserve them from all harm."
For its part, the provisional government announced through Baghdad's official Iraqi News Agency that it was dissolving Parliament and would hold "free and honest elections" at a future date.
Kuwait's land and sea borders were closed, as was the airport.
RELATED STORIES, PICTURES: Pages 2,3, BACK PAGE.. Military Forces Compared:.
Total Troops:.
Iraq: 1,000,000.
Kuwait: 20,300.
Main Battle Tanks:.
Iraq: 5,500.
Kuwait: 275.
Combat Aircraft:.
Iraq: 513.
Kuwait: 36.
Ships:.
Iraq: 51.
Kuwait: 46.
Source: International Institute for Strategic Studies.